With that, let's get into playing
around with some of the API of Redux.
We're gonna through pretty
much each of these.
Now, there's a little
bit of a lie in here,
which is Redux itself has five methods or
functions attached to it.
But createStore creates a store
object that has four more, right?
So technically it's got five.
I wasn't lying, but
if we're being intellectually honest,
there might be a grand total of nine.
But that is the entire API
surface area of Redux.
And we're gonna pretty much
master the library itself.
And then we will kind of tie it in
to building some React applications.
Cool, all right, so
we've got a few in here.
We've got createStore, we've got compose,
we've got bindActionCreators,
we've got applyMiddleware.
Let's start out with a good little helper
library over here called compose, right?
And compose is a function that
is not dissimilar to if you've
ever seen pipe, or flow, or
something along those lines.
Compose actually has nothing
to do with Redux, per say,
it's just attached to the Redux object
cuz you might need it for things.
What things, well, I gotta keep you,
that's a cliffhanger so
you tune into the next episode.
But basically what compose does is allows
you to take a set of functions and
create one function that will pass
a value through each of them.
Let's actually see what that means,
let's make some functions together.
We can make one here called makeLouder.
These will all just take a string,
all right?
And so say String.to, lowercase string,
we'll say makeLouder = string,
and then we will string.UpperCase(),
all right.
Let's give ourselves
a little more room here, so
we don't need that much, all right.
So got makeLouder, we've got a const,
let's say repeatThreeTimes.
That'll take a string,
and it'll do a string.
Repeat, I bet you didn't know that
was a method on string objects.
And then here's another fun
one that is not even HTML
semantically valid anymore, but
we're into it, is embolden.
Which will take string, and then we will
string.bold, which will wrap it in b tags.
All right,
just before we look at compose, at all,
I wanted to make a function
that took the value and
effectively made it uppercase,
then repeated it three times,
and then wrapped it in those bold tags,
what would I do?
Any guesses?
>> I said map over the functions and
apply them one-by-one.
>> Yeah, I can map over the functions and
apply them one-by-one, right?
And so
I could create an array of all three.
And I could take whatever the value,
and I could use reduce, or
I can use map, and
run it through all three.
I could make a function called, let's say,
const repeatThreeTimesMakeLouder.
Actually, let's say, yeah,
makeLouderRepeatThreeTimes, AndEmbolden.
Right, and that could take a string.
And it could take the array and
reduce it on through, right?
We could write that.
And that's effectively, spoiler alert,
what compose is basically doing under the
hood for us, just making us not do that.
We could say makeLouder, On the string.
And then we could immediately pass
the value of that into repeatThreeTimes.
And then with that, we could embolden it.
All right, and
now we can say, console.log,
And we'll say, hello.
All right, you can kind of see it down
here in the lower right corner, it works.
Now,we can see a world where doing
this all the time isn't great, and
this is what compose gives for us.
So all we can do in this case is say,
compose, And
we'll say embolden,
RepeatThreeTimes, and makeLouder.
And maybe I'll even spell makeLouder
right, I don't know, we'll see, right?
And I get the same result down there.
It's a way to take multiple functions and
compose a new function out
of all those pieces, right?
And that is one of the helper methods
that comes with Redux, which means for
those of you sports fans who
are keeping track at home,
we are now 20% of the way through
the entire surface area of Redux.
And one of them was just
a functional helper in this case.